# How It Works


## Proccess
 - [x] Take project path from the user
    - [x] Find all java files in the project
    - [x] Store all java files in a list
 - [x] Parse the project using ANTLR 
    - [x] Differentiate between classes, interfaces, and enums
    - [x] `ClassListener` for classes
    - [x] `InterfaceListener` for interfaces
    - [x] `EnumListener` for enums
    - [ ] `AnnotationListener` for annotations
 - [ ] Generate a Junit test file
    - [x] Class : test class is abstract
    - [x] Class : test super class
    - [x] Class : test interfaces
    - [x] Class : test fields
    - [x] Class : test constructors
    - [ ] Class : test constructors logic
    - [ ] Class : test methods logic
    - [x] Interface : test is interface
    - [ ] Interface : test methods
    - [x] Enum : test is enum
    - [x] Enum : test enum values


## Main
the 'Main' class is the entry point of the program.
- `takeInput()` : takes the path of the project from the user and find all java files in it and store them in `filesPath` list.
- Using `MainListener` class, it will diffrentiate between classes, interfaces, and enums, storing them in `myJavas` list. `Javas` is a super class for `Class`, `Interface`, and `Enum`.
- Looping over all `myJavas`, it will `analyze()` each file using a specific listener for each type of file setting all required informaton about the file. 
- After analyzing all files, it will generate a test file the project.


## Listeners
There are 4 listeners, one for each type of file, and one for the main class.
How to use Listeners:
Any listener extends `Java8BaseListener` and overrides the methods that we want to use. `Java8BaseListener` is a class generated by ANTLR, it contains all the methods that we can use to analyze the file.

### Setup ANTLR
download ANTLR plugin for Intellij IDEA 
then add the following dependency to your pom.xml file:
```xml 
    <dependencies>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.antlr</groupId>
            <artifactId>antlr4</artifactId>
            <version>4.12.0</version>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>
```
if you are not using maven then download the jar file from [here](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.antlr/antlr4/4.7.1) and add it to your project. Check [this](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TguDABH7s_e0PWiKkjPXAey0EEdhxFwgj6Tcz4mYgHQ/edit?usp=sharing)


### Add new listener
create a new class that extends `Java8BaseListener` and override the methods that you want to use.
for more about listeners, check _antlr definitive guide_ book, chapter 4 and 7.

### Edit listener
To know the name of the method that you want to override, you can test grammer rules. Simply, open the grammar file (Java8.g4) and search for the rule that you want to test. Right Click on the rule and select "Test Rule ...". Then, write your code in ANTLR perview and check parse tree. The result will be shown in as parse tree. <br>Tip : you can always test `compilationUnit` rule to see the whole parse tree,and find the rule that you want to use.



## File Test Reference (Previous Year)
[milestone 1](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1GQx6r32Z88JlUsCit-frE4Dza8sNVS0t/view?usp=sharing)
[milestone 2](https://drive.google.com/file/d/18WUtNCmEkhRx5fgLd-HMZ47z9gntwdGf/view?usp=sharing)